These are sensations that sustain a
feeling of safety and reassurance,
facilitating what Donald Winnott called
going on being, a state of unbroken
revery in which thought, feeling, and
perception are allowed to flow
undisturbed. These contiguous
experiences form the foundational
building blocks of a non-traumatized
self, providing a safety or refuge from
disruptive and overwhelming sensory
experiences of otherness, such as the
cold, hard surfaces of the external
world, sensations of hunger or pain.
What is a self after all but a concept
defined by the interplay of sameness and
otherness, belonging and separation?